---
title: 2021 Goals
---

Happy New Year!

Every year I try to make some personal and professional goals. Last year was the
first time I decided to hold myself additionally accountable by posting them
[in my blog.](./2020-01-28-2020-goals.html) That worked out OK, so I'm going to
do that again this year. 

## New Goals

My goals for 2021 are based on my goals from 2020 - mostly just moving around
numbers to make them more realistic. 2020 was a weird year and definitely
skewed how those goals turned out.

### ~~12~~ 6 Fermentations

In 2020 I wanted to ferment 12 things: beer, kombucha, or anything really. It
felt really weird going through with that last year without being able to
reasonably share anything. This year I plan on doing 6 brews. Hopefully this
accounts for enough time to allow vaccinations to become ubiquitous and
sharing brews can happen again.


### ~~12~~ 10 Open Source Contributions

Last year I aimed for 12 contributions and ended up with 9. This year
I just want to push that a little further and get 10 pull requests out.

### Read ~~3~~ 2 Engineering Books

I just didn't read anything from my engineering reading list last year. This
year I'll shoot for 2 things from that list.

### Read ~~6~~ 10 Thoughtful Books

In 2020 I read 7ish nonfiction books for personal growth (you can check them
out in the link above), and this year I'd like to push that up to 10 books.

## The Checklist

Just like 2020, in the spirit of accountability I'm going to keep a checklist of
my goals on this page.

| | | | | | | | | | | |
|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|
| Fermentations | &#10060; | &#10060; | &#10060; | &#10060; | &#10060; | &#10060; | | | | |
| Open Source Pull Requests | &#10060; | &#10060; | &#10060; | &#10060; | &#10060; | &#10060; | &#10060; | &#10060; | &#10060; | &#10060; | 
| Engineering Reading List | &#10060; | &#10060; |          | | | | | | | |
| Thoughtful Reading List | [&#10003;](https://www.haymarketbooks.org/books/483-democracy-at-work) | &#10060; | &#10060; | &#10060; | &#10060; | &#10060; | &#10060; | &#10060; | &#10060; | &#10060; |

## Extras

I have a few additional goals that I have not put numbers to for the year. I'd
like to keep up with some regular posts like I've done in the last 6 months. In
2020 I picked up the guitar again after years of not touching one, and I'd like
to maintain a very regular practice schedule. I would also like to get more
involved in my local community and activism this coming year as well. I don't
particularly want to put numbers to any of these things - it doesn't seem likely
that putting these in the checklist would create the desired result. These are
just a few more things that I think will be important this year and hopefully
having these published out here will help me stick to it.
